---
layout: default
title: Exp
permalink: /exp/
description: Over a decade creating.
---
# Exp

##### (Experience)

Time isn't everything when it comes to experience; it is all about
exposure. With my diverse job and educational experiences I have
worked in just about every capacity there is in the digital
arena. From independent contracting as a Web developer and designer,
to network security at one of the countries largest data centers, and
even running a compute cluster on a plane over Antarctica I've been
around the block a few times in several different capacities.

## Work

### Senior Systems / DevOps EngineerSenior DevOps Engineer
<span class="expdate">August 2015 - Current</span>

#### Superpedestrian, Inc.

Build, test, release, and operational support for multiple public Web,
Mobile, manufacturing, and embedded applications across multiple teams
consisting of over 10 developers. Manage all of IT for company
including all networking, storage, server, software, desktop support,
policy, and security for 40+ person startup with multiple sites, local
datacenter and Amazon Web Services infrastructure.  Provided
architecture, design and significant development of high throughput
API backend for high data rate mobile application. Security, auditing,
and remediation of issues from in-house developed applications.

### DevOps Manager
<span class="expdate">August 2013 - August 2015</span>

#### MITx, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Automated provisioning and configuration of ~100 systems across many
environments. Release management for several internal and open source
applications.  Several enhancement, bug fixes and feature
contributions to the open source applications that make up the edX
platform.  Created, design, and maintain several full stack
applications in Flask and Django.  Developed AWS VPC module for
Ansible along with several enhancements to other AWS and OpenStack
modules.  Monitoring and performance tuning for apps scaling from
teams, to campus sized, to worldwide

### IT Manager
<span class="expdate">August 2011 - August 2013</span>

#### University of Kansas Center for the Remote Sensing of Ice Sheets

Management of five person IT department including hiring, purchasing,
contract negotiation, budgeting, planning, and supervision. Design,
management, and acquisition of a petabyte scale SAN environment
including backup, network sharing, and replication utilizing HDS
HNAS/BlueArc, EMC Networker, Brocade FC switches, and Linux file
serving. Maintain, update, and monitor high performance computing
clusters (TORQUE and MatLab). Provide traditional IT office support
including routing, switching, firewall, desktop, e-mail, DNS, DHCP,
print, authentication and Web services. Provide remote and in field IT
support for Antarctic and Greenland based science missions for NASA
and the NSF. Logistics, planning, and design for creating reliable
data backup and collections systems for hundreds of terabytes in
extreme environments.

Designed, purchased, and implemented a VMWare VSphere cluster to
replace over a dozen aging and out of warranty systems. Upgraded HPC
cluster from CentOS 4 to Red Hat EL 6. Upgraded network infrastructure
to 10/40gbps core and 10gbps Internet for high volume data sharing and
processing. Researched, architected, and acquired new cluster based
multi tier hierarchical file system. Negotiated secure off-site
storage for tape library. Assisted in design and implementation of a
1GB/s in flight data acquisition and processing system. Implemented
regular maintenance schedule to increase reliability and ensure up to
date software.

### Information Systems Analyst
<span class="expdate">April 2008 - August 2011</span>

#### University of Kansas School of Engineering

Software design, development and maintenance of several Python/Django
based Web applications. Web design overhaul of all departmental Web
sites. Web server systems administration on Red Hat Enterprise Linux
servers.

Backend support for over 500 Windows, Linux, and Mac desktop clients
including shared computer labs and staff workstations utilizing
Windows and Linux servers, managed switches, SANs, and perimeter
firewalls. Maintain and develop VMWare machine level and shared
storage backups for disaster recovery. Designed and implemented a
Linux thin client solution for maximizing the performance of older
hardware in a lab environment. Assisted in implementing and
maintaining server virtualization project utilizing VMWare ESX and
VSphere to maximize server hardware efficiency. Designed and assisted
with a complete redesign of the School of Engineering network to
utilize modern security and best practices such as VLAN segregation,
perimeter firewall, RFC 1918 private addressing, wake on LAN, and PXE
network booting. Assisted in designing, implementing and maintaining
the DCHP and DNS infrastructure for the school using ISC
products. Assisted in implementation and maintenance of iSCSI and
fiber channel SANs.

### Network Security Engineer
<span class="expdate">May 2006 – April 2008</span>

#### USDA National Information Technology Center

Highly available firewall and routing design, administration,
monitoring, and deployment using Check Point and Juniper firewalls for
large scale data center hosting environments. Remote Access VPN
design, implementation, and maintenance using Checkpoint
SecuRemote/SecureClient and Juniper Secure Access SSL VPN. System
administration for over fifty Linux, BSD, and Windows
servers. Vulnerability assessment using ISS Internet Scanner, Tenable
Nessus, and eEye Retina. KVM over IP using Raritan Dominion, Paragon,
and IP-Reach. Authentication server administration and management
using RADIUS, Cisco Secure ACS, Active Directory, and LDAP. Host,
wired, and wireless network intrusion detection using Cisco CSA,
AirDefense, and Enterasys Dragon. Technical documentation and
diagramming for FISMA compliance and audit requests.

### Research Assistant
<span class="expdate">July 2005 - May 2006</span>

#### Center for Secure and Dependable Systems

Responsible for implementing secure virtual operating system
environment on embedded systems utilizing the LynxOS-178 real time
operating system, for flight control systems. Developed a XML network
content filter. Created and managed a linux driven honeynet for
researching computer attacks and attackers modus operandi.

### Developer
<span class="expdate">Dec. 2000 – Aug. 2002</span>

#### Web Rite Inc. and Logical Solutions LLC

Worked as contractor developing Web applications for a variety of
clients. Developed a human resource management Web application using
classic ASP, PHP MySQL, SQL Server, and VBScript. Included Linux and
Windows server administration. Other applications included retail Web
applications, calendering and event applications, and Cisco VoIP phone
applications. Technical documentation including user guides, software
design, and database design documentation.

## Education


### University of Idaho
<span class="expdate">Dec. 2000 – Aug. 2002</span>

#### Computer Science and Mathematics

Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, minor in Mathematics. Graduated
Summa cum laude, with a GPA of 3.94. Federal Cyber Corps Scholarship
student. Notable projects while attending included developing a Web
based project management application, designing and developing a GPS
plotting application, and writing a full compiler for a custom
programming language.


### New Horizons
<span class="expdate">2000</span>

#### Technical School

Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer plus Internet. Coursework
included Windows Server, TCP/IP, Internet Information Server, and
Enterprise implementation and support.
